---
title: "Gluon v0.9"
description: "Gluon v0.9 is out with 2 new APIs, Idle v2, initial macOS support, and more!"
excerpt: "Gluon v0.9 is out with 2 new APIs, Idle v2, initial macOS support, and more!"
date: 2023-01-03T15:33:41Z
lastmod: 2023-01-03T15:33:41Z
draft: false
weight: 50
images: []
tags: []
contributors: []
categories: ["News"]
pinned: true
homepage: true
---

Happy new year! Here's a new Gluon release to start it off. Gluon v0.9.0 is out with 2 new APIs, Idle v2, initial macOS support, and more!

### Summary

- New `Window.versions` API with browser version info
- New `Window.controls` API to manage window state (minimize/maximize/etc)
- New additions and improvements to `Window.idle`:
  - `Window.idle.sleep()` now performs a light version of hibernation
  - Now uses CDP commands instead of native to detect processes
- Added new `useSessionId` option to `Window.cdp.send()`, allowing to send browser-level CDP commands instead of just to target
- Added initial Mac support

<br>


{{< changelog-header "new" "Browser Version Info" >}}

There's a new `Window.versions` API to provide you with version info of the browser being used. Here are some examples of what you can expect:

```js
// Chrome
{
  product: { name: 'Chrome', version: '107.0.5304.107', major: 107 },
  engine: { name: 'chromium', version: '107.0.5304.107', major: 107 },
  jsEngine: { name: 'v8', version: '10.7.193.22', major: 10 }
}

// Firefox Nightly
{
  product: { name: 'Firefox Nightly', version: '110.0a1', major: 110 },
  engine: { name: 'firefox', version: '110.0a1', major: 110 },
  jsEngine: { name: 'spidermonkey', version: '1.8.5', major: 1 }
}
```

<br>

{{< changelog-header "new" "Window Controls" >}}

The new `Window.controls` allows you to easily manage the state of the browser window with the functions:
- `minimize()` - Minimize the browser window.
- `maximize()` - Maximize the browser window (use `show()` first if you want to make it appear too).
- `show()` - Show (unminimize) the browser window.

<br>

{{< changelog-header "improved" "Idle v2" >}}

Gluon's unique Idle API has received a second iteration with this update:
- Hibernation is more robust - internals have been rewritten to more stable by talking to Chromium to get processes instead of using native commands.
- Sleep introduced - a lighter version of hibernation, using a screenshot of the page instead of completely killing it. Sleep also works cross-platform (hibernation is Windows-only for now).

<br>

{{< changelog-header "improved" "CDP Tweaks" >}}
The CDP (Chrome DevTools Protocol) API has gotten a minor improvement by now being able to send direct browser commands with a new `useSessionId` argument added to `cdp.send()`:

```js
send(method: string, params?: Object, useSessionId?: Boolean = true)
```

You should keep it enabled most of the time, but if you need to send a direct command yourself you can make it `false`.

<br>

### Initial macOS Support
This update also brings new macOS support! Only a few browsers are added for now so it's still a work in progress, but they work pretty well.
